# This file was autogenerated by uv via the following command:
#    uv export --group dev --extra docs --no-hashes --no-emit-workspace
alabaster==0.7.16
    # via sphinx
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-platforms
    #   craft-store
    #   pydantic
anyio==4.8.0
    # via
    #   httpx
    #   starlette
    #   watchfiles
apeye==1.4.1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
apeye-core==1.1.5
    # via apeye
astroid==3.3.8
    # via pylint
attrs==24.3.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
autodoc-pydantic==2.2.0
    # via charmcraft
autodocsumm==0.2.14
    # via sphinx-toolbox
babel==2.16.0
    # via sphinx
backports-tarfile==1.2.0 ; python_full_version < '3.12'
    # via jaraco-context
beautifulsoup4==4.13.3
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   furo
    #   pyspelling
    #   sphinx-toolbox
boolean-py==4.0
    # via license-expression
bracex==2.5.post1
    # via wcmatch
build==1.2.2.post1
    # via poetry
cachecontrol==0.14.2
    # via
    #   poetry
    #   sphinx-toolbox
canonical-sphinx==0.3.0
    # via charmcraft
canonical-sphinx-extensions==0.0.23
    # via canonical-sphinx
certifi==2025.1.31
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
cffi==1.17.1
    # via
    #   cryptography
    #   pygit2
    #   pynacl
    #   xattr
chardet==5.2.0
    # via python-debian
charset-normalizer==3.4.1
    # via requests
cleo==2.1.0
    # via poetry
click==8.1.8
    # via uvicorn
codespell==2.4.1
    # via charmcraft
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   build
    #   click
    #   pylint
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-autobuild
contourpy==1.3.1
    # via matplotlib
coverage==7.6.10
    # via pytest-cov
craft-application==4.8.3
    # via charmcraft
craft-archives==2.0.2
    # via craft-application
craft-cli==2.15.0
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
craft-grammar==2.0.3
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
craft-parts==2.4.4
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
craft-platforms==0.5.0
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
craft-providers==2.1.1
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
craft-store==3.2.1
    # via charmcraft
crashtest==0.4.1
    # via cleo
cryptography==44.0.3 ; sys_platform == 'linux'
    # via secretstorage
cssutils==2.11.1
    # via dict2css
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
dict2css==0.3.0.post1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
dill==0.3.9
    # via pylint
distlib==0.3.9
    # via virtualenv
distro==1.9.0
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-platforms
    #   lazr-restfulclient
docker==7.1.0
    # via charmcraft
docutils==0.21.2
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jsonschema
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-tabs
    #   sphinx-toolbox
domdf-python-tools==3.9.0
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   apeye-core
    #   dict2css
    #   sphinx-toolbox
dulwich==0.22.7
    # via poetry
exceptiongroup==1.2.2 ; python_full_version < '3.11'
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   hypothesis
    #   pytest
fastjsonschema==2.21.1
    # via poetry
filelock==3.17.0
    # via
    #   cachecontrol
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   virtualenv
fonttools==4.55.8
    # via matplotlib
freezegun==1.5.1
furo==2024.8.6
    # via canonical-sphinx
gitdb==4.0.12
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.44
    # via canonical-sphinx-extensions
h11==0.16.0
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   uvicorn
html5lib==1.1
    # via
    #   pyspelling
    #   sphinx-toolbox
httpcore==1.0.9
    # via httpx
httplib2==0.22.0
    # via
    #   launchpadlib
    #   lazr-restfulclient
httpx==0.28.1
    # via craft-store
humanize==4.11.0
    # via charmcraft
hypothesis==6.124.3
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   apeye-core
    #   httpx
    #   requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
importlib-metadata==8.6.1 ; python_full_version < '3.12'
    # via
    #   build
    #   keyring
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
installer==0.7.0
    # via poetry
isort==5.13.2
    # via pylint
jaraco-classes==3.4.0
    # via
    #   craft-store
    #   keyring
jaraco-context==6.0.1
    # via keyring
jaraco-functools==4.1.0
    # via keyring
jeepney==0.8.0 ; sys_platform == 'linux'
    # via
    #   keyring
    #   secretstorage
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jinja2-compat
jsonpointer==3.0.0
    # via sphinx-jsonschema
jsonschema==4.23.0
    # via charmcraft
jsonschema-specifications==2024.10.1
    # via jsonschema
keyring==25.6.0
    # via
    #   craft-store
    #   poetry
kiwisolver==1.4.8
    # via matplotlib
launchpadlib==2.1.0
    # via craft-archives
lazr-restfulclient==0.14.6
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   launchpadlib
lazr-uri==1.0.7
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   launchpadlib
    #   wadllib
license-expression==30.4.1
    # via craft-application
linkify-it-py==2.0.3
    # via canonical-sphinx
lxml==5.3.0
    # via
    #   mypy
    #   pyspelling
macaroonbakery==1.3.4
    # via craft-store
markdown==3.7
    # via pyspelling
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via
    #   mdit-py-plugins
    #   myst-parser
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   sphinx-jinja2-compat
matplotlib==3.10.0
    # via charmcraft
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via pylint
mdit-py-plugins==0.4.2
    # via myst-parser
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
more-itertools==10.6.0
    # via
    #   cssutils
    #   jaraco-classes
    #   jaraco-functools
msgpack==1.1.0
    # via cachecontrol
mypy==1.14.1
    # via charmcraft
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via mypy
myst-parser==4.0.0
    # via canonical-sphinx
natsort==8.4.0
    # via domdf-python-tools
numpy==2.2.2
    # via
    #   contourpy
    #   matplotlib
oauthlib==3.2.2
    # via lazr-restfulclient
overrides==7.7.0
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-cli
    #   craft-grammar
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-store
packaging==24.2
    # via
    #   build
    #   craft-providers
    #   matplotlib
    #   poetry
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
pathspec==0.12.1
    # via yamllint
pillow==11.1.0
    # via matplotlib
pip==24.3.1
    # via charmcraft
pkginfo==1.12.0
    # via poetry
platformdirs==4.3.7
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
    #   poetry
    #   pylint
    #   virtualenv
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via pytest
poetry==2.0.1
    # via poetry-plugin-export
poetry-core==2.0.1
    # via
    #   poetry
    #   poetry-plugin-export
poetry-plugin-export==1.9.0
polib==1.2.0
    # via sphinx-lint
protobuf==5.29.3
    # via macaroonbakery
pycparser==2.22
    # via cffi
pydantic==2.9.2
    # via
    #   autodoc-pydantic
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-grammar
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   craft-store
    #   pydantic-settings
    #   sphinx-pydantic
pydantic-core==2.23.4
    # via pydantic
pydantic-settings==2.7.1
    # via autodoc-pydantic
pyfakefs==5.7.4
pygit2==1.14.1
    # via craft-application
pygments==2.19.1
    # via
    #   furo
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-tabs
pylint==3.3.4
pymacaroons==0.13.0
    # via macaroonbakery
pynacl==1.5.0
    # via
    #   macaroonbakery
    #   pymacaroons
pyparsing==3.2.1
    # via
    #   httplib2
    #   matplotlib
pyproject-hooks==1.2.0
    # via
    #   build
    #   poetry
pyrfc3339==1.1
    # via macaroonbakery
pyspelling==2.10
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   charmcraft
pytest==8.3.4
    # via
    #   pytest-check
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-mock
    #   pytest-subprocess
pytest-check==2.4.1
pytest-cov==6.0.0
pytest-mock==3.14.0
pytest-subprocess==1.5.3
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   freezegun
    #   matplotlib
python-debian==0.1.49
    # via craft-archives
python-dotenv==1.0.1
    # via pydantic-settings
pytz==2024.2
    # via pyrfc3339
pywin32==308 ; sys_platform == 'win32'
    # via
    #   craft-cli
    #   docker
pywin32-ctypes==0.2.3 ; sys_platform == 'win32'
    # via keyring
pyxdg==0.28
    # via
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-store
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   myst-parser
    #   pyspelling
    #   responses
    #   snap-helpers
    #   sphinx-jsonschema
    #   yamllint
rapidfuzz==3.11.0
    # via cleo
referencing==0.36.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
regex==2024.11.6
    # via sphinx-lint
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   cachecontrol
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   craft-store
    #   docker
    #   macaroonbakery
    #   poetry
    #   requests-toolbelt
    #   requests-unixsocket2
    #   responses
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jsonschema
requests-toolbelt==1.0.0
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-store
    #   poetry
requests-unixsocket2==0.4.2
    # via
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
responses==0.25.6
rpds-py==0.22.3
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
ruamel-yaml==0.18.10
    # via sphinx-toolbox
ruamel-yaml-clib==0.2.12 ; python_full_version < '3.13' and platform_python_implementation == 'CPython'
    # via ruamel-yaml
secretstorage==3.3.3 ; sys_platform == 'linux'
    # via keyring
setuptools==75.8.0
    # via
    #   lazr-restfulclient
    #   lazr-uri
    #   pygit2
shellingham==1.5.4
    # via poetry
six==1.17.0
    # via
    #   html5lib
    #   lazr-restfulclient
    #   macaroonbakery
    #   pymacaroons
    #   python-dateutil
smmap==5.0.2
    # via gitdb
snap-helpers==0.4.2
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   craft-application
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via anyio
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via hypothesis
soupsieve==2.6
    # via
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   pyspelling
sphinx==7.4.7
    # via
    #   autodoc-pydantic
    #   autodocsumm
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   furo
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx-autobuild
    #   sphinx-autodoc-typehints
    #   sphinx-basic-ng
    #   sphinx-copybutton
    #   sphinx-design
    #   sphinx-notfound-page
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-reredirects
    #   sphinx-tabs
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   sphinxcontrib-details-directive
    #   sphinxcontrib-jquery
    #   sphinxext-opengraph
sphinx-autobuild==2024.10.3
    # via charmcraft
sphinx-autodoc-typehints==2.3.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-basic-ng==1.0.0b2
    # via furo
sphinx-copybutton==0.5.2
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-design==0.6.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-jinja2-compat==0.3.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-jsonschema==1.19.1
    # via sphinx-pydantic
sphinx-lint==1.0.0
    # via charmcraft
sphinx-notfound-page==1.0.4
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-prompt==1.8.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-pydantic==0.1.1
    # via charmcraft
sphinx-reredirects==0.1.5
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-tabs==3.4.5
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-toolbox==3.8.1
    # via charmcraft
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-details-directive==0.1.0
    # via charmcraft
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.1.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jquery==4.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxext-opengraph==0.9.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
standard-imghdr==3.10.14 ; python_full_version >= '3.13'
    # via sphinx-jinja2-compat
starlette==0.45.3
    # via sphinx-autobuild
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via
    #   charmcraft
    #   sphinx-toolbox
tomli==2.2.1 ; python_full_version <= '3.11'
    # via
    #   build
    #   codespell
    #   coverage
    #   mypy
    #   poetry
    #   pylint
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
tomlkit==0.13.2
    # via
    #   poetry
    #   pylint
trove-classifiers==2025.4.11.15
    # via poetry
types-python-dateutil==2.9.0.20241206
    # via charmcraft
types-pyyaml==6.0.12.20241230
    # via charmcraft
types-requests==2.31.0.20240311
    # via charmcraft
types-setuptools==75.8.0.20250110
    # via charmcraft
types-tabulate==0.9.0.20241207
    # via charmcraft
types-urllib3==1.26.25.14
    # via charmcraft
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   astroid
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
    #   craft-platforms
    #   craft-store
    #   domdf-python-tools
    #   mypy
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   referencing
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   uvicorn
uc-micro-py==1.0.3
    # via linkify-it-py
urllib3==2.3.0
    # via
    #   docker
    #   dulwich
    #   requests
    #   requests-unixsocket2
    #   responses
    #   types-requests
uvicorn==0.34.0
    # via sphinx-autobuild
virtualenv==20.29.1
    # via poetry
wadllib==2.0.0
    # via lazr-restfulclient
watchfiles==1.0.4
    # via sphinx-autobuild
wcmatch==10.0
    # via pyspelling
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via html5lib
websockets==14.2
    # via sphinx-autobuild
xattr==1.1.4 ; sys_platform == 'darwin'
    # via poetry
yamllint==1.35.1
    # via charmcraft
zipp==3.21.0 ; python_full_version < '3.12'
    # via importlib-metadata
